Working With Tmux

What is tmux:
    tmux session, with two horizontal and one vertical pane. tmux is an open-source terminal multiplexer for Unix-like operating systems. 
    It allows multiple terminal sessions to be accessed simultaneously in a single window. It is useful for running more than one command
    -line program at the same time.


    Using Tmux:
        To use tmux, it has to be install on- for those using ubuntu, go to the terminal and enter - sudo apt get install tmux
        check to see it has been install by entering : which tmux. 
        This should display the directory where tmux is located.

    Lauch Tmux:
        enter the keyword : tmux
        on the command line to get tmux fired up


    Advantage of using Tmux:
        it is important to know that linux is very stable but hardware are not. There could crashes or even network connection issues 
        when connected to a network server, you get drop.  and as a result could lead to loosing work done on the terminal or in a session. 

        However with tmux, is challenge is overcome. your load up your terminal again and still continue exist work. The last session you
        are working on is preserve or better put - it helps keep things persistent in the background. 
        

    A secenerio :

    open up the terminal : enter a text using any terminal editor (nano, vim, emac) without saving the file.
    close the terminal without saving the file.
    Restart the terminal - you will notice that the last session you were and what you were doing is gone and even the content of the file
    is gone.

    Tmux Comes to the Rescue:
        open up  the terminal
        Launch tmux : enter a text using any terminal editor and wihout saving the file close the terminal.
        Reopen the  terminal 
        Launch the command : tmux attach
        This will bring back the last session you were in and what you 
        were doing.
        
    What is the Big deal about Tmux:
        Tmux is portable it doesn't care what your terminal emulator is. and it does not even require any GUI. Moreso, you can pair tmux
        with any terminal emulator of your choice.

    What Tmux offer More:
        Multiple panes and windows
        Each window is completely independent of the other.
        You can also customize tmux to use mouse to resize the pane.

    Tmux configuration is very extensive, you can configure it the way you want and make tmux personal to enhance your workflow.
    
    Working with Panes:
    
        Learning tmux Prefix: ctrl b 

        tmux_prefix is like a signal you send to tmux that you want do something and tmux respond.
        you use the ctrl b the you issue the actually command to do something
        ctrl b " :create an horizontal split
        ctrl b % : create vertical split.
        to exit type exit or ctrl d. ctrl b x

        Navigating between Panes:
            ctrl b arrow key        

    Usefulness of Panes
        it allows us to run something in one pane while doing something else in another pane.

    To Zoom in : ctrl b z again to zoom in.
